# MLM_WorldHappinessReport
This analysis explores the World Happiness Report dataset over the years 2015 – 2019. The factors that all 5 years have in common are GDP, life expectancy, generosity, social support/family, freedom to make choices, and perceptions of corruption. The combination of these result in a happiness score for each country. There were 156 – 158 countries in the dataset for each year. While most countries were represented all five years, some had fewer data points. The countries were ranked based on their overall resulting happiness score. The question this analysis is seeking to answer is which of the six factors (GDP per capita, social support, life expectancy, freedom to make choices, perceptions of corruption, or generosity) is most important to the overall happiness score across all the countries. This analysis was performed using Longitudinal Multilevel Modeling. Country was evaluated as a random effect which generalized the results over the full set of countries. This analysis was performed using the lmer function from the lmerTest package. Nested models were created, starting with the simplest model building iteratively until all factors were included. The lmer function was applied to each of these models. The models were then compared with the anova function to find which factors (GDP per capita, generosity, etc) were statistically significant. The resulting model contained all six factors, that is, each factor that makes up the happiness score was found to be significant. The model yielded the following results with the factors listed from most to least significant: GDP per capita, social support, freedom to make choices, perceptions of corruption, life expectancy, and generosity. The years 2017, 2018, and 2019 had negative coefficients and were statistically significant. 2016 had a positive coefficient, but with a pvalue of 0.09, was not significant. Since country was randomized, these can be considered worldwide results. After checking the assumptions of in residuals, they did not meet the requirements. Based on this, the coefficients should not used, particularly at the high and low points. The middle points of the data seem to be a better fit of the data. Further analysis of this data would attempt transformations to improve the residuals.
